and
say we have um again the recognizer
to parser
thing where we're working on and that should be no problem
and then
that can be sort of developed uh
as needed when we get - enter the tourism domain.
two ways. Either we do a syllable concatenating
grammar for the English generation which is sort of starting from scratch and
doing it the easy way,
or we simply adopt the ah um
more in-depth
um style that is implemented in the German system
so anyt- we'll find a time later in the week to uh get together and talk about   your  understanding of what SmartKom plans are.
well for one thing we're also using this room to collect data.
Not this type of data, no not meeting data but sort of - sort ah our version of a wizard experiment such
and so it's a - sort of a computer call system
that gives you tourist information tells you how to get places.
let's say a simple parse from a s- from an utterance
won't really give us is what the person actually wants.
And um
so the idea is to construct uh um
suitable interfaces and a belief-net for
a module that actually tries to guess what
the underlying intention  was.
Or "that person wants to enter because he wants to buy something and that you usually do inside of buildings" and so forth.
These ah these types of uh
these bits of additional information are going to be
embedded into the M_-three-L_ structure
in an - sort of subfield that we have reserved.
um - so far I've thought of it as sort of adding it onto the modeler knowledge module. So this is one that already adds
So  one  of the decisions is what we call this A_V_E thing.
Do you want to
So that's a- a discrete decision. There are only three possibilities and the uh - what one would like is for this uh, knowledge modeling module to
But,
uh th- the current design suggests that
if
it seems to be an important
and if the belief-net is  equivocal
so that it doesn't say that one of these is much more probable than the other, then an option is to go back and ask
for the information you want.
uh, We probably  won't  do this early on,
because the current focus is more on the decision making and stuff like that.
But
While we're on the subject I just wanted to give you a sort of head's up
that
it could be that
some months from now we said "O_K we're now ready to
try to  close  that  loop "
in terms of querying about some of these decisions.
So -
my suggestion then is that you um
look into the currently ongoing discussion about how the
action plans are supposed to look like.
And they're currently um
Agreeing or - or in the process of agreeing on an
X_M_L_ification of
um something like a
state-transition network
of how dialogues would proceed.
So we ha- we  have  to get in on that.
Well, O_K, so that's what I  thought.
So action he- action here means dia- uh speech ac- uh you know
dialogue  act. Yeah.
when - so, when you get to the  tourist  domain
it's not just an  information  retrieval system.
I think this - people are gonna have to think this through a bit more carefully.
you know th- the functional module that - that
interacts with - with where the tourism g- stuff is going
probably is too restrictive.
what's called the action plan and what's really the dialogue manager.
um
is based on slots that have to be filled and the um
a time or a movie title or something like
this whereas in the a
um tourist domain it might be an entire route.
very complex structured information in these slots and
I'm not sure if - if complex slots of that type are really
um being taken into consideration.
Those are the - I think the - the true key issues is how does the whatever comes out of the language input pipeline look like and then what the action planner does with it -
and how that is uh specified.
We talked about this several times that - that - the -
the  input  end is gonna need a  fair  amount of  feedback
from the  planning  end.
Would there be any chance
of getting the  terminology   changed so that the dialogue planner was called a "dialogue planner"?
It oughta be called a - a dialogue manager.
I- if - if that c- in- persists then we're gonna need  another  term.
for the
thing that actually
does the planning of the uh
routes and whatever we are doing for the tourist.
Yeah I think just the - the spatial planner and the route planner
I showed you once the interac- action between them among them in the deep map system so -
a printout of the communication between those two fills up
I don't know how many pages and that's just part of how do I get to one place. It's really insane. and uh
And he's
gonna be responsible for the implementation of this action planner.
No, no he's
completely gonna rewrite everything.
In Java.
Yes I was just - that's my next question whether we're - we're gonna stick to Prolog or not.
No. No, that's gonna be phased out.
I totally agree. But - but what it nee- but th- what the point is the- in that case the  dialogue  manager is sort of  event  driven.
So the  dialogue  manager may think it's in a  dialogue   state
of  one  sort, and this -
one of these  planning  modules comes along and says "hey,  right  now we need
to ask a question".
So that  forces  the dialogue manager to change state.
And - and the - the underlying idea of course is
that there is something like
kernel modules with kernel functionality that you can plug uh
certain applications like tourist information or
um the home scenario with uh controlling a V_C_R and so on.
So - wouldn't
That's an additional reason to have this
well-defined interface and keep these things like uh tourist information external.
And language input for example, is of course
uh crucial you know also when you do the sort of deep understanding analysis that we envision.
Uh, So what are - what are the  plans  roughly?
um
it's to - to integrate and syntactic analysis.
People at D_F_K_I have  written  a fair number of  parsers.
uh have  written  various parsers at D_F_K_I. None of them
are suitable?
Yeah, uh the problem is
th- that it has to be very fast because um if you want to for more than one path anywhere
And they also have to be very robust.
cuz of um speech recognition errors and
Of  course.  But - But
uh given th- the
constraints,  that you want it to be  small  and  fast  and  so   forth,
my guess is you're
probably  into some kind of  chunk  parsing.
We have knowledge bases from - from Verbmobil
system we can use and so.
by Morphix but
What - what's happening on-line is
just um
um a -
a retrieval from the lexicon which would
give all the stemming information so it would be a full foreign lexicon.
Yeah and  here's  the case where the English and the German might  really  be
significantly   different.
In terms of
if you're trying to build some fast parser
and so forth and -
Some extensions uh have to be made.
For - for a English version
So we  talked  about the  fact  that
There're  going  to  be
a  certain  number of  decisions
That you  want  the  knowledge  modeler to  make,
that will be then fed to the  function  module,
that does
uh,  route  planning.
So there are these decisions. And then
one   half  of this we talked about at  little  bit is
how  if  you  had  the right  information,  if you knew something about what was  said  and about th- the something about
was the  agent
a  tourist  or a  native  or a  business  person or uh  young  or  old,  whatever.
That information, and also about the
Uh, what we're calling "the entity",
So all that kind of information could be combined
into  decision  networks and give you  decisions.
But the  other   half  of the problem is
How would you  get  that kind of information from the  parsed   input?
for various reasons who are doing  doctoral  dissertations on this,
and
the idea that we're  really  after
is a  very   deep  semantics based on  cognitive   linguistics  and the notion that there are a  relatively   small  number
of  primitive  conceptual  schemas  that  characterize  a lot of  activity.
So, what we're  really  trying to do
is to map from the  discourse
to the  conceptual  semantics level.
And that all  sorts  of things,  particularly  in the tourist domain, can be represented in  terms  of uh source, path and goal. So the idea would be could we build an  analyzer  that would take an  utterance
very wide coverage. So if you can  do  this,
then the notion would be that across a  very   large  range of  domains,  you could use this deep  conceptual  basis as the  interface.
And the idea of the  belief-net  is it combines
the
information  from the  dialogue  which comes across in this  general  way,
And so th- the  coupling  to the situation comes in this model from, at th- at th- at the belief-net, combining evidence from the dialogue with the ontology with the situation.
