O_K. So uh, he's not here, so you get to -
Yeah, I will try to explain the thing that I did this - this week - during this week.
Well eh you know that I work - I begin to work with a new feature to detect voice-unvoice.
What I trying two M_L_P
to - to the - with this new feature and the fifteen feature
uh from the
eh bus- base system
V_A_D or something like that. And I'm trying two M_L_P, one
one that only have t- three output,  voice, unvoice, and silence, and
other one that have fifty-six output.
The probabilities  of the allophone . And
I tried to do some experiment of recognition with that
and only have result with - with the M_L_P with the three output.
And, well, the result are
li- a little bit better, but more or less similar.
This is the work that I did during this date and also mmm
I - H- Hynek last week say that if I have time I can to begin to - to study
well  seriously the France Telecom proposal to look at the code and something like that
carefully what they are doing with the program  @@  and I begin to - to work also in that.
But the first thing that I don't understand is that they
are using R_-
the uh log energy that this quite - I don't know why they have some
constant in the expression of the lower energy. I don't know what that means.
O_K, and wh- when did Stephane take off? He took off -
I think that Stephane will arrive today or tomorrow.
Yeah.
So he's - he's going to I_CASSP which is good. I - I don't know if there are many people
Wanna talk a little bit about what we were talking about this morning? Just briefly, or
Tsk.
Then uh I talked a little bit about
um continuing with these dynamic ev- um acoustic events,
and um
we're - we're - we're
thinking about a way to test the completeness of
a - a set of um dynamic uh events.
Uh, completeness in the - in the sense that
um if we - if we pick these X_ number of acoustic events,
do they provide sufficient coverage
for the phones that we're trying to recognize
or - or the f- the words that we're gonna try to recognize later on.
And so Morgan and I were uh discussing
um s- uh s-
a form of a cheating experiment
where we get -
um we have uh
a chosen set of features, or acoustic events,
and we train up a hybrid
um system to do  phone  recognition on  TIMIT.
So um have you had a chance to do
this um thing we talked about yet with the uh -
Uh. No actually I was going a different - That's a good question, too, but I was gonna ask about the -
the um
changes to the data in comparing P_L_P and mel cepstrum
for the S_R_I
system.
So we talked on the phone about this, that -
that there was still a difference of a -
of a few percent
and
you told me that there was a difference in how the normalization was done.
And I was asking if you were going to do -
redo it
uh for P_L_P with the normalization done as it had been done for the mel cepstrum.
right, no I haven't had a chance to do that.
What I've been  doing  is
uh
trying to figure out - it just seems to me like there's a um -
well it seems like there's a bug,
because
the difference
in performance is -
it's not gigantic
but it's big enough that it - it seems wrong.
Yeah, I  agree,  but I thought that the normalization difference was one of the
possibilities, right?
Yeah, I guess I don't
think that the normalization difference is gonna account for everything.
So what I was working on is um
just going through and checking the headers of the wavefiles, to see if
That's -
as far as  my  stuff goes,
yeah, well I
tried this mean subtraction method. Um. Due to Avendano,
I'm taking s- um
six seconds of speech, um
I'm using two second
F_F_T analysis frames,
stepped by a half second
And I calculate um
the spectral mean,
of the log magnitude spectrum  over that N_.
I use that to normalize the s- the current center frame
by mean subtraction.
And um
the - I tried that with H_D_K, the Aurora setup of H_D_K training on clean T_I-digits,
and um
it - it helped um in a phony reverberation case
um
where I just used the simulated impulse response
um
the error rate went from something like eighty
it was from something like eighteen percent
to um four percent.
And on meeting rec- recorder far mike digits, mike -
on channel F_, it went from um
forty-one percent error to eight percent error.
