Well, you - you had s- you said there were  two  things that you might wanna do. One was rehearse your  i- i-   talk  -
Not - not rehearse, I mean, I have just not spent any time on it, so I can show you what I've got, get your input on it, and maybe some suggestions, that would be great.
And the  same  is true for the  proposal.
It basically says, well
"this is construal", and then it continues to say that one could potentially build a probabilistic relational model that has some  general,  domain-general rules
how things are construed, and then the idea is to use ontology, situation, user, and
discourse model to instantiate elements in the classes of the probabilistic relational model  to do some inferences in terms of what is being construed as  what
in our beloved tourism domain.
Um, I don't - I, uh - I don't need it. Um, actually this is the - the  newest  version after your comments, and -
Yeah, um, if you would have checked your email you may have received a note from  Yees  asking you to send me the, uh, up-to-d-
current formalism thing that you presented.
Anyway.
And y- uh, email any time, but most usefully before -
The twenty-ninth.
That's when I'm meeting with Wolfgang Wahlster to
sell  him this idea.
Then I'm  also  going to present a little talk at E_M_L,
about
what we have done here
And so forth. So basically we can make a point that here is ontological knowledge but if it's nine - nine P_M in the evening then the discotheque question would be, for example,
one that might ask for  directions  instead of just  location.
Um,  and so forth and so forth. That's sort of motivating it.
Then what have we done so far? We had our little bit of, um,
um, SmartKom stuff, that we did,
Oh, you've got the  parser  done.
the generation outputter.
And, um, and Fey is doing the synthesis stuff as we speak.
That's all about that. Then I'm going to talk about the data, you know these things about - uh, actually I have an example,
Um, I will talk about our problems with the rephrasing, and how we solved it, and some preliminary observations, also, um,
and then maybe talk about the big picture here, e- tell a little bit - as much as I  can about the N_T_L story.
and then,
talk a bit about the embodied and simulation approach favored here and as a prelude,
So X_schemas, then, I would like to do - talk about the construction aspect and then at the end about our Bayes-net.
Oh, maybe the F_M_R_I stuff. Should I mention the fact that, um, we're also actually started - going to start to look at people's brains in a more direct way?
Well, the  time  to mention it,  if  you mention it, is when you talk about  mirror  neurons,
Depends.  I mean, there  is
a, um, whole language  learning  story,
But I don't think I - I am capable of - of do- pulling this off and doing justice to the matter.
anal- there - the - there - we've got various i- generations of slides that show language analysis, and matching to the underlying image schemas, and,
I mean I  might  even mention that this work you're doing is sort of also with the M_P_I in  Leipzig,  so.
Because, um, E_M_L is building up a huge thing in Leipzig.
the b- the combination of the biology and the Leipzig connection might be interesting to these guys, yeah.
Anyway!  Enough of that, let's talk about your thesis proposal.
You might want to, uh, double-check the spellings of the authors' names on your references, you had a few, uh,
misspells in your slides, there. Like I believe you had "Jackendorf".
So I did note- i- i- it looks like the, uh,  metaphor  didn't get in yet.
So the top of the second - of pa- page two you have a sentence.
No, it - it -
it s-  says  it but it doesn't say - it doesn't - it d- it d- yeah, it doesn't give the punch line.
which is, that,
the
constructions,  that, uh, Nancy and Keith and friends are doing,
uh, are,
in a  way,  quite  general
but
cover only base cases. And
to make them apply
to  metaphorical  cases and  metonymic  cases and all those things, requires this additional mechanism,
of  construal.  And the punch line is, he claimed,
that
if you do this  right,  you can get
essentially orthogonality, that
if you introduce a new construction
at - at the base level, it should com- uh, interact with all the metonymies and metaphors so that all of the projections of it also should work.
And, similarly, if you introduce a new metaphor,
it should then
uh, compose with all of the constructions.
I mean, it seems like  nothing  is context- free.
Oh,  nothing  is context- free,
but there  are  basic  cases.  That is,
um, there are physical containers, there are physical paths, there - you know, et cetera.
But "walked into the cafe and ordered a drink," and "walked into the cafe and broke his nose," that's sort of -
Oh, it doesn't mean that they're  unambiguous.  I mean, a cafe  can  be construed as a container, or it  can  be construed
But it  does  say that,
uh, if
you walked into the  cafe  and broke your nose, then you  are  construing the cafe
as an  obstacle.
You don't find that usage, uh - uh, I checked for it in the Brown national corpus. The "walk into it" never really means, w- as in walked smack -
But "run into" does.
But - Like, "run into an old friend",
it
probably  needs its own construction.
um, there  are  idioms and my guess is that's  one  of them, but, um - I don't know.
anything else you want to  ask  us about
the thesis proposal, you got -
the - i- what would have been  really  nice is to find an example for
all  of this,
uh,
from our domain.
w- Well we have, for example, a canonical use of something and y- it's, you know, we have some constructions and then it's construed as something, and then we - we may get the same constructions with a metaphorical use
that's also relevant to the - to the domain.
So "in the bus" and "on the bus," um, that's actually a  little  tricky in English because to  some  extent they're  synonyms.
Right. So - so that - that may or may not be what you - what you want to do. I mean you  could  do something much simpler
So in terms of the - this - We had - we had -  initially  we'd - started discussing the "out of film."
Yeah, it's a little - it's, uh - we've thought about it before, uh t- uh - to use the examples in other papers, and it's - it's a little complicated.
O_K. So I would try to - I would stay away from one that involves weird construal stuff.
I mean the - the old  bakery  example might be nice, "Is there a  bakery  around here". So if you c- we really just construe it as a -
you know, you wonder how people here make their living, and - there're all sorts of reasons why you might
be asking about the existence of a bakery that  doesn't  mean, "I want to buy some  baked  goods."
um, those are interesting examples but it's not clear that they're  mainly
construal  examples.
a - So the  metonymy  thing
probably the  easiest  and a- and actually the -
Where is the castle? How old is it? How much does it cost?
But as Nancy just su- suggested it's probably   ellipticus.   Huh.
Well,  I mean, my argument  here  is - it's - it's - it's the same thing as "Plato's on the top shelf," I'm con- you know, th- that you can refer to
O_K. Can we think of a nice
metaphorical  use of "where"
in the tourist's domain?
"where was Heidelberg, um, in the Thirty Years' War?"
You know, "Where could I learn its opening hours," or something.
But that's
not  metaphorical.
A st- uh, well, you can certainly say, um, you know, "I'm in overload."
A fixed expression, yeah.
Well I - when, uh - just f- u- the data that I've looked at so far that rec- I mean, there's tons of cases for polysemy.
But I think the argument should be -
uh, can be made that,
you know, despite the fact that this is  not  the most met- metaphorical domain, because people interacting with  H_T_I  systems try to be straightforward and less lyrical,
I mean maybe the "where is something" question as a  whole,  you know, can be construed as, u- i- locational versus instructional request.
Yeah but then you're not on the lexical level, that's sort of one level higher.
Also it  would  be nice to get - ultimately to get a nice mental  space  example, so, even  temporal  references are -
just in the  spatial  domain are rare.
Yeah, maybe we can include that also in our second, uh, data run. We c- we can show people pictures of objects and then
O_K. So why don't we plan to give you feedback electronically.
